In this demonstration,
we're going to be working with CloudWatch logs
authentication and access control.
We're going to be working with the AWS console.
And if you want to follow along, you will need your own AWS account.
Now we do encourage you to follow along.
But remember, anything you deploy in AWS could cost you money.
So if you do follow along,
remember to remove what you've created once you finish experimenting
with it as some of these features may incur charges.
I'm back in the CloudWatch dashboard, but things look a little bit different now.
I'm in the CloudWatch overview view, but nothing is being displayed.
If I select the drop‑down here, there are no services that are displayed.
Also, if select Log groups, we get this error, which is kind of what I expected.
The IAM user does not have permissions to view log groups in this account.
So I've logged in here with a user called GLOBOUser1.
And this user is authenticated against my AWS account,
but the user has not been authorized to work with CloudWatch.
So if I want this user to be a CloudWatch administrator,
we have to use the appropriate access controls to
authorize this user to work with CloudWatch.
To that end,
I need to be logged in with a user account that has the permissions to
work with Identity and Access Management control.
So let's do that.
So I'm back in with my administrative user,
and this time I'm in the IAM dashboard.
I want GLOBOUser1 to be a CloudWatch administrator.
Now we can assign policies directly to GLOBOUser1.
We can see GLOBOUser1's user account under Users.
But potentially, Globomantics might have several CloudWatch administrators.
So instead, we'll work with groups.
So let's select Groups.
And in here, I'm going to create a new group.
So let's select that.
And we'll give the group a nice descriptive name.
So here, GloboCloudWatchAdmin, and then I'll select Next Step.
It's through here then we can attach policies to this group,
giving the members of the group sets of permissions in my AWS account.
We can use the search option to find CloudWatch AWS managed policies.
So in search, I'll type CloudWatch.
And as I do,
you can see the list of policies get filtered to display any
policy that's got CloudWatch in its name.
If we scroll down a little bit,
here we've got a few policies that might be of interest to us.
We've got CloudWatchFullAccess, CloudWatchLogsFullAccess,
CloudWatchLogsReadOnlyAccess, and CloudWatchReadOnlyAccess.
So I can select one or a combination of these policies to
give this group and therefore members of this group
permissions to work with CloudWatch.
I want GLOBOUser1 to fully administer CloudWatch.
So let's select the CloudWatchFullAccess policy and then select Next Step.
We're shown details of the group we're about to create,
including a list of policies the group will have.
I'm happy with these settings, so I'll say Create Group.
And we can see the group on the list.
Now before we add our user to the group,
let's have a closer look at those policies by going to the
Policies section and filtering for CloudWatch.
So by fiiltering for CloudWatch,
we can see the same policies that we saw when we created the group.
If I select the radio button next to
CloudWatchReadOnlyAccess and then expand that group,
we can see the JSON representation of that group.
We can see this policy has a statement with a list of actions.
Remember these actions equate to APIs then the
holder of this policy can execute.
If we scroll down this policy a little bit,
we can see the effect is allow, and this statement applies to all resources.
If you have time, investigate some these managed policies,
select the policy, expand the policy,
and view the JSON information. Let's go back to our group.
So here we are in the GlobalCloudWatchAdmin group.
There's no members of this group yet,
so let's say Add Users to Group and select GLOBOUser1 and then Add Users.
So GLOBOUser1 is a member of the group, the group has been
assigned the AWS managed policy. So this user should have
access to those policy permissions.
Let's go back to the browser that has the logged‑in
user. So our user is still logged in, and we're still seeing this error message.
Let's try refreshing the screen. And now, GLOBOUser1 can see the log groups.
So now our user is not only authenticated to our AWS account.
This user is also authorized to work with CloudWatch.
Remember, if the AWS managed policies don't quite meet your requirements,
you can create your own custom managed policies with the
different combinations of actions that you need.
Also remember, if I wanted to limit GLOBOUser1 to a specific log group,
let's say the Kinesis log group,
we can do that using a custom managed policy and listing this log
group's IAM in the resource section of that policy.
In this module,
we introduced Globomantics, our customer that we will be
working with throughout this course.
We introduced you to Amazon CloudWatch and some of its key features.
And then we focused in on CloudWatch logs and log streams.
We worked through a brief CloudWatch logs demonstration before learning the
importance of securing access to CloudWatch using IAM users and IAM
policies. In our next module, we're going to be looking at how we can
integrate Amazon CloudTrail with CloudWatch.
So join me there, and we'll continue on our event response and monitoring on AWS for DevOps engineers journey.